---
layout: post-Henry
title: Henry Yip's Introduction
katex: True
comments: True
categories: Henry
---
Hi everyone! My name is Henry Yip (Chinese: 葉昊彥), the main contributor of this website.

My [CV is available if you press the link](henry-yip.github.io/assets/CV.pdf)

I have a plethora of interests: 

### Quantum Physics
As a Mathematical Physics Major, I study physics with mathematical rigor. I haven't studied all areas of physics, but my favourite topic is Quantum Mechanics, in particular, derivations revolved around the Schrödinger Equation, which is quite difficult sometimes. Below I'll show the equation for transmission probability:
\\
$$T=\frac{4(\frac{E}{U_0})(1-\frac{E}{U_0})}{\sinh^{2}{\sqrt{2m(U_0-E)}\frac{L}{\hbar}}+4(\frac{E}{U_0}){(1-\frac{E}{U_0})}}$$

Kinda complicated, isn't it! When $$T=1$$, resonance occurs - somehow all particles (wave-matter duality!) passes through the barrier! It's similar to standing waves. You can try solve it and see how the wavenumber $$k$$ varies with the potential barrier width $$L$$. More in: [Potential Barrier](({% link _posts/2022-05-21-Potential Barrier.markdown %}))

Note: If you are interested in this field, you can read [Modern Physics, Second Edition](https://www.pearson.com/us/higher-education/math---science/physics---astronomy/physics---astronomy/intermediate-physics/modern-physics.html), by Randy Harris*. Basic Calculus is a prerequisite. I first read this when I was in F6 and was a bit stuck in the exercises, but nevertheless completed most parts. Note that the book lacks mathematical rigour in some part, so it only provides basic understandings towards some important concepts, such as operators, well-defined observables, etc. If you want to understand some of the analogies, you also need basic understanding in electromagnetism (around y2 level!)


### Meteorology
Aside from Physics and Mathematics, I am a meteorologist, specializing in tropical cyclones formation and its history. I started chasing typhoons when I was in P3, and read almost all [Hong Kong Observatory's annual publications](https://www.hko.gov.hk/en/publica/pubtc.htm)! My favourite topic is the rapid intensitication of tropical cyclones, which sometimes lead to a phenonmenon called Hot Tower. It was observed in Typhoon Vicente, as frequent lightnings were recorded in its walls. Hato (2017), Higos(2020) are also examples of Rapid Intensification, and its occurance poses a real concern to weather forecast systems. More in my post: Rapid Intensification of Tropical Cyclones - History and Reasons

### Classical Music

I play both Piano and Violin, and I am officially a Mahlerian, while also listening extensively to Brahms, Beethoven, Bruckner, Tchaikovsky, and even more obscure composers like Korngold, Hummel, etc. My favourite pieces are: Mahler Symphony No.7. Tchaikovksy: Romeo and Juliet, etc. More in: [Henry's Classical Playlist]({% link _posts/2022-05-20-ClassicalMusic.markdown %}). I also listen to basically all recordings of everything from the 1940s. More in: [Conductors and Pianists]

### Running

I used to run in SPCC Cross Country Team, specilizing in 5000m and 10000m while also, occasionally, running 400m and 1500m. I am definitely not a good runner as I don't really practice. My proudest time is 23 mins 04 secs - 6km, which was recorded in Nov 2019 in Bowen Road. It wasn't impressive for sure, but I am fine with that.

### Chess

Chess is something I picked up a year ago. I suck at all formats so the only thing I really do is analyse positions and chess puzzles and learn openings. I am about to create a very extensive section on this. Hope you'll enjoy!
More on: Chess Puzzles and how to solve them.


